DOCS.md, before:

# PurgeWrangler for Advanced Users & Developers
**Document Revision**: 6.0.0+

With every open source project, testing and collaboration are key in building trust and ensuring an efficient, bug-free, and smooth user experience. This document serves as a guide for advanced users willing to try unreleased versions of the script, and developers to add functionality and capability to **purge-wrangler.sh**.

## The Basics
This document assumes you are familiar with the pre-requisites and capabilities of the script. If not, it is best that you read them in the [README](./README.md) and try out the release version of the script before diving into testing or development.

### Getting Pre-Release Builds
If you are an advanced user willing to test the newest unreleased versions of **purge-wrangler.sh**, use the following command to install the latest build of the script:
```bash
curl -qLs https://bit.ly/2U1zdF5 > purge-wrangler.sh; bash purge-wrangler.sh; rm purge-wrangler.sh
```
If using **git**, it may be preferable to keep a working local clone of the repository. This can be done with:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/mayankk2308/purge-wrangler.git
```
Always know that unreleased builds of the script can potentially cause problems and may even render your system unbootable in worst-case scenarios. For example, if a new build of the script has a bug in its recovery mechanism, it may leave the system unbootable. It is recommended to use an [extra installation of macOS](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208891) for testing.

### Reporting Problems
Use the [Issues](https://github.com/mayankk2308/purge-wrangler/issues) section on the repository to report any problems with the script. Please follow the templates for bug reports and feature requests. Try not to open duplicate issues.

### Contributing
Code contributions are done only via pull requests. Please use the [Pull Requests](https://github.com/mayankk2308/purge-wrangler/pulls) section on the repository to contribute. All contributions will be reviewed and tested thoroughly. If you are contributing a new patch, feel free to add yourself to the [README](./README.md) as a contributor for the patch.

### Recovering From Worst-Case Scenarios
All worst-case scenarios can be easily recoverable by simply reinstalling [macOS via recovery](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204904). I recommend having an additional [bootable installer](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201372) ready as well, to not have to always download the entire operating system each time. After reinstalling macOS, get rid of outdated script components:
```bash
sudo rm /usr/local/bin/purge-wrangler && \
sudo rm -rf /Library/Application\ Support/Purge-Wrangler
```
If you want to switch back to a release build:
- Uninstall all patches from the script.
- Remove all components of the script as shown above.
- Use the command in [README](./README.md) to install the latest release.

In case of a situation where the uninstallation mechanism has a bug, it is wiser to reinstall macOS and clean out the script components as described above.

## Deep Dive
This section dives deeper into the mechanisms involved in **purge-wrangler.sh** and how you can leverage them to add your own capabilities. This section is updated according to the document revision, which corresponds to the planned/deployed script version.

API definitions will be of the following format:

- `<function name>`
  - **<arg 1>**
  - **<arg 2>**
  ...

### User Interface APIs
**purge-wrangler.sh** includes simple and easy-to-use APIs to create standardized, elegant, and simple user interactions.

#### Yes/No Prompts
Yes/no prompts provide a standard way to ask yes/no questions to the user. Having a standard mechanism for this ensures a consistent user interface and less bugs in processing input.

##### API Definition
The yes/no prompt generation API consists of just one function:
- `yesno_action`
  - **prompt**, *String*: Message or prompt to ask for input.
  - **yesaction**, *String*: Action to take on affirmation. This is `eval`uated.
  - **noaction**, *String*: Action to take on cancellation. This is `eval`uated.
  - **noecho**, *Any*: By default, prompts `echo` before asking for input. This disables this.

##### Example
This example requests the user for confirmation for running recovery:
```bash
yesno_action "${bold}Run Recovery?${normal}" "recover_sys" "exit"
```
where `recover_sys` is a defined function.


#### Menu Generation
Newer builds of the script incorporate a standardized menu generation and input processing mechanism that reduces code size and chances of introducing bugs.

##### API Definition
The menu generation API consists of two primary functions:
- `generate_menu`
  - **header**, *String*: Describes the menu.
  - **indent_level**, *Integer*: Indents the menu by this number of spaces.
  - **gap_after**, *Integer*: Leaves a space after this number of items in the menu (`0` = no gap).
  - **should_clear**, *Boolean*: Determines whether or not to clear before presenting menu.
  - **items**, *(String)*: Items to display.
- `autoprocess_input`
  - **message**, *String*: Message or prompt to ask for input.
  - **caller**, *String*: The calling function's name. Can provide multiple functions using `&&`.
  - **exit_action**, *String*: Command(s) to run on exiting the menu.
  - **prompt_back**, *Boolean*: Determines whether or not to prompt a return to menu.
  - **actions**, *(String)*: Actions for every item - could be functions or commands.

##### Example
Here's a sample of how a menu can be created:
```bash
### An example menu
present_menu() {

  # Describe menu items
  local menu_items=("Setup eGPU" "Uninstall" "Quit")

  # Describe menu actions - should correspond to items above
  local menu_actions=("auto_setup_egpu" "uninstall" "exit")

  # Generate the menu
  generate_menu "PurgeWrangler (${script_ver})" "0" "0" "1" "${menu_items[@]}"

  # Process user input for this menu
  autoprocess_input "What next?" "present_menu" "exit" "true" "${menu_actions[@]}"
}
```

### Patching Mechanisms
Todo.

## What's Ahead
It is clear that **Apple** will never be incorporating support for external GPUs for **Thunderbolt 1/2** Macs, and for now, neither for **NVIDIA eGPUs**. My hope is that until we see operating system updates for the last thunderbolt 2 Mac, the patches continue to function. Beyond that, we have to move on to other things (and devices :p).

Commit message:

Update docs with patching techniques

DOCS.md, after:

# PurgeWrangler for Advanced Users & Developers
**Document Revision**: 6.0.0+

With every open source project, testing and collaboration are key in building trust and ensuring an efficient, bug-free, and smooth user experience. This document serves as a guide for advanced users willing to try unreleased versions of the script, and developers to add functionality and capability to **purge-wrangler.sh**.

## The Basics
This document assumes you are familiar with the pre-requisites and capabilities of the script. If not, it is best that you read them in the [README](./README.md) and try out the release version of the script before diving into testing or development.

### Getting Pre-Release Builds
If you are an advanced user willing to test the newest unreleased versions of **purge-wrangler.sh**, use the following command to install the latest build of the script:
```bash
curl -qLs https://bit.ly/2U1zdF5 > purge-wrangler.sh; bash purge-wrangler.sh; rm purge-wrangler.sh
```
If using **git**, it may be preferable to keep a working local clone of the repository. This can be done with:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/mayankk2308/purge-wrangler.git
```
Always know that unreleased builds of the script can potentially cause problems and may even render your system unbootable in worst-case scenarios. For example, if a new build of the script has a bug in its recovery mechanism, it may leave the system unbootable. It is recommended to use an [extra installation of macOS](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT208891) for testing.

### Reporting Problems
Use the [Issues](https://github.com/mayankk2308/purge-wrangler/issues) section on the repository to report any problems with the script. Please follow the templates for bug reports and feature requests. Try not to open duplicate issues.

### Contributing
Code contributions are done only via pull requests. Please use the [Pull Requests](https://github.com/mayankk2308/purge-wrangler/pulls) section on the repository to contribute. All contributions will be reviewed and tested thoroughly. If you are contributing a new patch, feel free to add yourself to the [README](./README.md) as a contributor for the patch.

### Recovering From Worst-Case Scenarios
All worst-case scenarios can be easily recoverable by simply reinstalling [macOS via recovery](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT204904). I recommend having an additional [bootable installer](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201372) ready as well, to not have to always download the entire operating system each time. After reinstalling macOS, get rid of outdated script components:
```bash
sudo rm /usr/local/bin/purge-wrangler && \
sudo rm -rf /Library/Application\ Support/Purge-Wrangler
```
If you want to switch back to a release build:
- Uninstall all patches from the script.
- Remove all components of the script as shown above.
- Use the command in [README](./README.md) to install the latest release.

In case of a situation where the uninstallation mechanism has a bug, it is wiser to reinstall macOS and clean out the script components as described above.

## Deep Dive
This section dives deeper into some key mechanisms involved in **purge-wrangler.sh** and how you can leverage them to add your own capabilities. This section is updated according to the document revision, which corresponds to the planned/deployed script version.

API definitions will be of the following format:

- `<function name>`
  - **<arg 1>**
  - **<arg 2>**
  ...

### User Interface APIs
**purge-wrangler.sh** includes simple and easy-to-use APIs to create standardized, elegant, and simple user interactions.

#### Yes/No Prompts
Yes/no prompts provide a standard way to ask yes/no questions to the user. Having a standard mechanism for this ensures a consistent user interface and less bugs in processing input.

##### API Definition
The yes/no prompt generation API consists of just one function:
- `yesno_action`
  - **prompt**, *String*: Message or prompt to ask for input.
  - **yesaction**, *String*: Action to take on affirmation. This is `eval`uated.
  - **noaction**, *String*: Action to take on cancellation. This is `eval`uated.
  - **noecho**, *Any*: By default, prompts `echo` before asking for input. This disables this.

##### Example
This example requests the user for confirmation for running recovery:
```bash
yesno_action "${bold}Run Recovery?${normal}" "recover_sys" "exit"
```
where `recover_sys` is a defined function.


#### Menu Generation
Newer builds of the script incorporate a standardized menu generation and input processing mechanism that reduces code size and chances of introducing bugs.

##### API Definition
The menu generation API consists of two primary functions:
- `generate_menu`
  - **header**, *String*: Describes the menu.
  - **indent_level**, *Integer*: Indents the menu by this number of spaces.
  - **gap_after**, *Integer*: Leaves a space after this number of items in the menu (`0` = no gap).
  - **should_clear**, *Boolean*: Determines whether or not to clear before presenting menu.
  - **items**, *(String)*: Items to display.
- `autoprocess_input`
  - **message**, *String*: Message or prompt to ask for input.
  - **caller**, *String*: The calling function's name. Can provide multiple functions using `&&`.
  - **exit_action**, *String*: Command(s) to run on exiting the menu.
  - **prompt_back**, *Boolean*: Determines whether or not to prompt a return to menu.
  - **actions**, *(String)*: Actions for every item - could be functions or commands.

##### Example
Here's a sample of how a menu can be created:
```bash
### An example menu
present_menu() {

  # Describe menu items
  local menu_items=("Setup eGPU" "Uninstall" "Quit")

  # Describe menu actions - should correspond to items above
  local menu_actions=("auto_setup_egpu" "uninstall" "exit")

  # Generate the menu
  generate_menu "PurgeWrangler (${script_ver})" "0" "0" "1" "${menu_items[@]}"

  # Process user input for this menu
  autoprocess_input "What next?" "present_menu" "exit" "true" "${menu_actions[@]}"
}
```

#### Patching Mechanisms
Patching is always a **3-step** process - creating a hexadecimal patchable representation of a binary, replacing hex values in this representation, and converting back to an executable, now patched.

##### API Definition
The patching mechanisms consist of three primary functions:
- `create_hexrepresentation`
  - **target_binary**, *String*: Binary executable to convert.
- `patch_binary`
  - **target_binary**, *String*: Executable to patch.
  - **find**, *String*: Value in hex to search for in binary.
  - **replace**, *String*: Value in hex to replace with in binary.
- `create_patched_binary`
  - **target_binary**, *String*: Binary executable to create patched binary for.

##### Example
This example demonstrates how to patch a kext binary:
```bash
local extension_to_patch="/System/Library/Extensions/SomeExtension.kext/Contents/MacOS/SomeExtension"
create_hexrepresentation "${extension_to_patch}"
patch_binary "${extension_to_patch}" "AB02EF" "BB02EF"
create_patched_binary "${extension_to_patch}"
```
Keep in mind that it is wise to add checks and handle any edge cases (previously patched system, for example), and always ensure that patches can work alongside already-present patches.

## What's Ahead
It is clear that **Apple** will never be incorporating support for external GPUs for **Thunderbolt 1/2** Macs, and for now, neither for **NVIDIA eGPUs**. My hope is that as long as we see operating system updates for the last **Thunderbolt 2** Mac, the patches continue to function. Beyond that, we have to move on to other things (and devices :p).
